README.md, before:

# Forecast in a Box

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/ecmwf/codex/raw/refs/heads/main/Project%20Maturity">
    <img src="https://github.com/ecmwf/codex/raw/refs/heads/main/Project%20Maturity/sandbox_badge.svg" alt="Static Badge">
  </a>

<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg" alt="Code Coverage">
  </a>

<a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/apache-2-0">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg" alt="License: Apache 2.0">
  </a>

<a href="https://github.com/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box/releases">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box?color=blue&label=Release&style=flat-square" alt="Latest Release">
  </a>
</p>

> \[!IMPORTANT\]
> This software is **Sandbox** and subject to ECMWF's guidelines on [Software Maturity](https://github.com/ecmwf/codex/raw/refs/heads/main/Project%20Maturity).

Forecast-In-A-Box is a prototype system to deliver ECMWF products on demand as generated by Anemoi models. It integrates pproc, anemoi, earthkit and other components of the ECMWF stack.

## Installation

### Developer Setup, Docker-free
```
# first activate your venv or something
uv pip install -e backend[test]
uv pip install --prerelease=allow --upgrade multiolib==2.6.1.dev20250613 # this is a known working version -- once we get past dev, this will disappear
pytest backend # just to ensure all is good
```

### Developer Setup, with Docker

Installation:
```bash
# backend
uv venv --seed ./ 
uv pip install ./backend[all]

# frontend
cd frontend
npm install yarn
```

Running the server:
```bash
cd frontend
yarn dev

cd backend
uvicorn forecastbox.entrypoint:app --reload --log-level info
python -m cascade.gateway tcp://localhost:8067
```

### User Setup, with Docker-compose

To use the prebuilt containers use the following docker-compose file, otherwise the default 
in the repo will build.

```yaml
name: FIAB
services:

  frontend:
    container_name: fiab-frontend
    image: ghcr.io/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box/frontend:latest
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    networks:
      - fiab-network

  backend:
    container_name: fiab-backend
    image: ghcr.io/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box/backend:latest
    volumes:
      - data:/app/data_dir
      - ~/.ssh:/root/.ssh:ro
      - ~/.ecmwfapirc:/root/.ecmwfapirc:ro
    ports:
      - "8000:8000"
    depends_on:
      - db
    environment:
      API__API_URL: "http://backend:8000"
      API__DATA_PATH: "/app/data_dir"
      API__MODEL_REPOSITORY: "https://sites.ecmwf.int/repository/fiab"
      CASCADE__CASCADE_URL: "tcp://cascade:8067"
      DB__MONGODB_URI: "mongodb://db:27017"
      DB__MONGODB_DATABASE: "fiab"

      ECMWF_API_URL: "https://api.ecmwf.int/v1"
      ECMWF_API_KEY: ${ECMWF_API_KEY}
      ECMWF_API_EMAIL: ${ECMWF_API_EMAIL}

      FIAB_INSTALL_TYPE: all
    networks:
      - fiab-network

  cascade:
    container_name: fiab-cascade
    image: ghcr.io/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box/cascade:latest
    entrypoint: "python -m cascade.gateway tcp://0.0.0.0:8067"
    networks:
      - fiab-network
    ports:
      - "48165:48165"
    shm_size: '5gb'
    volumes:
      - data:/app/data_dir
      - ~/.ssh:/root/.ssh:ro
      - ~/.ecmwfapirc:/root/.ecmwfapirc:ro

    # Change depending on the GPU Resources available
    deploy:
      resources:
        reservations:
          devices:
            - driver: nvidia
              count: 1
              capabilities: [gpu]

  db:
    container_name: fiab-db
    image: mongo:8.0
    networks:
      - fiab-network

networks:
  fiab-network:
    driver: bridge

volumes:
  data:

```

Set the ecmwf-api-client keys from [ECMWF API Key Management](https://api.ecmwf.int/v1/key/) as env vars.

Then:

```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

Commit message:

[backend] runtime config validation (#45)
* [backend] runtime config validation

Adds runtime config validation to the standalone.entrypoint

Updates install instructions

Fixes standalone install/run script

* [backend] refactor model edit/download to sqlite (#46)

* [backend] refactor model edit/download to sqlite

removes mongodb altogether, as no usage remains

* [backend] bug in exception handling sig

README.md, after:

# Forecast in a Box

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/ecmwf/codex/raw/refs/heads/main/Project%20Maturity">
    <img src="https://github.com/ecmwf/codex/raw/refs/heads/main/Project%20Maturity/sandbox_badge.svg" alt="Static Badge">
  </a>

<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg" alt="Code Coverage">
  </a>

<a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/apache-2-0">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg" alt="License: Apache 2.0">
  </a>

<a href="https://github.com/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box/releases">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box?color=blue&label=Release&style=flat-square" alt="Latest Release">
  </a>
</p>

> \[!IMPORTANT\]
> This software is **Sandbox** and subject to ECMWF's guidelines on [Software Maturity](https://github.com/ecmwf/codex/raw/refs/heads/main/Project%20Maturity).

Forecast-In-A-Box is a prototype system to deliver ECMWF products on demand as generated by Anemoi models. It integrates pproc, anemoi, earthkit and other components of the ECMWF stack.

## Installation

### Developer Setup, Docker-free
```
# first activate your venv or something
mkdir -p ~/.fiab
uv pip install -e backend[test]
uv pip install --prerelease=allow --upgrade multiolib==2.6.1.dev20250613 # this is a known working version -- once we get past dev, this will disappear
pytest backend # just to ensure all is good
```
Note the above will likely change over time -- you may want to instead run `./backend/fiab.sh`, perhaps with explicit `FIAB_ROOT` (as it defaults to `"~/.fiab"`). Note in particular that this command creates a venv in `$FIAB_ROOT/venv` unless one exists already.

### Developer Setup, with Docker

Installation:
```bash
# backend
uv venv --seed ./ 
uv pip install ./backend[all]

# frontend
cd frontend
npm install yarn
```

Running the server:
```bash
cd frontend
yarn dev

cd backend
uvicorn forecastbox.entrypoint:app --reload --log-level info
python -m cascade.gateway tcp://localhost:8067
```

### User Setup, Docker-free
```
bash ./backend/fiab.sh # used both as installer script *and* launcher
```

### User Setup, with Docker-compose

To use the prebuilt containers use the following docker-compose file, otherwise the default 
in the repo will build.

```yaml
name: FIAB
services:

  frontend:
    container_name: fiab-frontend
    image: ghcr.io/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box/frontend:latest
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    networks:
      - fiab-network

  backend:
    container_name: fiab-backend
    image: ghcr.io/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box/backend:latest
    volumes:
      - data:/app/data_dir
      - ~/.ssh:/root/.ssh:ro
      - ~/.ecmwfapirc:/root/.ecmwfapirc:ro
    ports:
      - "8000:8000"
    depends_on:
      - db
    environment:
      API__API_URL: "http://backend:8000"
      API__DATA_PATH: "/app/data_dir"
      API__MODEL_REPOSITORY: "https://sites.ecmwf.int/repository/fiab"
      CASCADE__CASCADE_URL: "tcp://cascade:8067"
      DB__MONGODB_URI: "mongodb://db:27017"
      DB__MONGODB_DATABASE: "fiab"

      ECMWF_API_URL: "https://api.ecmwf.int/v1"
      ECMWF_API_KEY: ${ECMWF_API_KEY}
      ECMWF_API_EMAIL: ${ECMWF_API_EMAIL}

      FIAB_INSTALL_TYPE: all
    networks:
      - fiab-network

  cascade:
    container_name: fiab-cascade
    image: ghcr.io/ecmwf/forecast-in-a-box/cascade:latest
    entrypoint: "python -m cascade.gateway tcp://0.0.0.0:8067"
    networks:
      - fiab-network
    ports:
      - "48165:48165"
    shm_size: '5gb'
    volumes:
      - data:/app/data_dir
      - ~/.ssh:/root/.ssh:ro
      - ~/.ecmwfapirc:/root/.ecmwfapirc:ro

    # Change depending on the GPU Resources available
    deploy:
      resources:
        reservations:
          devices:
            - driver: nvidia
              count: 1
              capabilities: [gpu]

  db:
    container_name: fiab-db
    image: mongo:8.0
    networks:
      - fiab-network

networks:
  fiab-network:
    driver: bridge

volumes:
  data:

```

Set the ecmwf-api-client keys from [ECMWF API Key Management](https://api.ecmwf.int/v1/key/) as env vars.

Then:

```bash
docker-compose up --build
```
